==============
Other
==============

@-party
==========



**@-party**: /at´par\`tee/, n.

[from the @-sign in an Internet address] (alt.: ‘@-sign party’ /at´si:n
par\`tee/) A semi-closed party thrown for hackers at a science-fiction
convention (esp. the annual World Science Fiction Convention or
“Worldcon”); one must have a `network
address <../N/network-address.html>`__ to get in, or at least be in
company with someone who does. One of the most reliable opportunities
for hackers to meet face to face with people who might otherwise be
represented by mere phosphor dots on their screens. Compare
`boink <./B.html#boink.html>`__.

The first recorded @-party was held at the Westercon (a U.S. western
regional SF convention) over the July 4th weekend in 1980. It is not
clear exactly when the canonical @-party venue shifted to the Worldcon
but it had certainly become established by Constellation in 1983. Sadly,
the @-party tradition has been in decline since about 1996, mainly
because having an @-address no longer functions as an effective lodge
pin.

We are informed, however, that "rec.skydiving" members have maintained
a tradition of formation jumps in the shape of an @.


404 compliant
==============



**404 compliant**: adj.

The status of a website which has been completely removed, usually by
the administrators of the hosting site as a result of net abuse by the
website operators. The term is a tongue-in-cheek reference to the
standard “301 compliant” Murkowski Bill disclaimer used by spammers. See
also: `spam <../S/spam.html>`__,
`spamvertize <../S/spamvertize.html>`__.


404
======

**404**: //, n.

[from the HTTP error “file not found on server”] Extended to humans to
convey that the subject has no idea or no clue -- sapience not found.
May be used reflexively; “Uh, I'm 404ing” means “I'm drawing a blank”.



/dev/null
===========



**/dev/null**: /dev·nuhl/, n.

[from the Unix null device, used as a data sink] A notional ‘black hole’
in any information space being discussed, used, or referred to. A
controversial posting, for example, might end “Kudos to
rasputin@kremlin.org, flames to /dev/null”. See `bit
bucket <./B.html#bit-bucket.html>`__.



2
==========




**2**: infix.


In translation software written by hackers, infix 2 often represents the
syllable *to* with the connotation ‘translate to’: as in dvi2ps (DVI to
PostScript), int2string (integer to string), and texi2roff (Texinfo to
[nt]roff). Several versions of a joke have floated around the internet
in which some idiot programmer fixes the Y2K bug by changing all the Y's
in something to K's, as in Januark, Februark, etc.



/me
=====


**/me**: //

[IRC; common] Under most IRC, /me is the “pose” command; if you are
logged on as Foonly and type “/me laughs”, others watching the channel
will see “\* Joe Foonly laughs”. This usage has been carried over to
mail and news, where the reader is expected to perform the same
expansion in his or her head.



0
=========



**0**

Numeric zero, as opposed to the letter ‘O’ (the 15th letter of the
English alphabet). In their unmodified forms they look a lot alike, and
various kluges invented to make them visually distinct have compounded
the confusion. If your zero is center-dotted and letter-O is not, or if
letter-O looks almost rectangular but zero looks more like an American
football stood on end (or the reverse), you're probably looking at a
modern character display (though the dotted zero seems to have
originated as an option on IBM 3270 controllers). If your zero is
slashed but letter-O is not, you're probably looking at an old-style
ASCII graphic set descended from the default typewheel on the venerable
ASR-33 Teletype (Scandinavians, for whom Ø is a letter, curse this
arrangement). (Interestingly, the slashed zero long predates computers;
Florian Cajori's monumental *A History of Mathematical Notations* notes
that it was used in the twelfth and thirteenth centuries.) If letter-O
has a slash across it and the zero does not, your display is tuned for a
very old convention used at IBM and a few other early mainframe makers
(Scandinavians curse *this* arrangement even more, because it means two
of their letters collide). Some Burroughs/Unisys equipment displays a
zero with a *reversed* slash. Old CDC computers rendered letter O as an
unbroken oval and 0 as an oval broken at upper right and lower left. And
yet another convention common on early line printers left zero
unornamented but added a tail or hook to the letter-O so that it
resembled an inverted Q or cursive capital letter-O (this was endorsed
by a draft ANSI standard for how to draw ASCII characters, but the final
standard changed the distinguisher to a tick-mark in the upper-left
corner). Are we sufficiently confused yet?



1TBS
======



**1TBS**: //, n.

The “One True Brace Style”; see `indent
style <./I.html#indent-style.html>`__.


(TM)
========


**(TM)**: //

[Usenet] ASCII rendition of the ™ appended to phrases that the author
feels should be recorded for posterity, perhaps in future editions of
this lexicon. Sometimes used ironically as a form of protest against the
recent spate of software and algorithm patents and look and feel
lawsuits. See also `UN\*X <../U/UN-asterisk-X.html>`__.

