Part III. Appendices

`Prev <Z/zorkmid.html>`__ 

 

 `Next <appendixa.html>`__

--------------

**Table of Contents**

A. `Hacker Folklore <appendixa.html>`__

`The Meaning of ‘Hack’ <meaning-of-hack.html>`__

`TV Typewriters: A Tale of Hackish Ingenuity <tv-typewriters.html>`__

`A Story About ‘Magic' <magic-story.html>`__

`Some AI Koans <koans.html>`__

`Tom Knight and the Lisp Machine <koans.html#id3141171>`__

`Moon instructs a student <koans.html#id3141202>`__

`Sussman attains enlightenment <koans.html#id3141241>`__

`Drescher and the toaster <koans.html#id3141308>`__

`OS and JEDGAR <os-and-jedgar.html>`__

`The Story of Mel <story-of-mel.html>`__

B. `A Portrait of J. Random Hacker <appendixb.html>`__

`General Appearance <appearance.html>`__

`Dress <dress.html>`__

`Reading Habits <reading_habits.html>`__

`Other Interests <other-interests.html>`__

`Physical Activity and Sports <physical.html>`__

`Education <education.html>`__

`Things Hackers Detest and Avoid <hates.html>`__

`Food <food.html>`__

`Politics <politics.html>`__

`Gender and Ethnicity <demographics.html>`__

`Religion <religion.html>`__

`Ceremonial Chemicals <chemicals.html>`__

`Communication Style <communication_style.html>`__

`Geographical Distribution <geography.html>`__

`Sexual Habits <sex.html>`__

`Personality Characteristics <personality.html>`__

`Weaknesses of the Hacker Personality <weaknesses.html>`__

`Miscellaneous <miscellaneous.html>`__

C. `Helping Hacker Culture Grow <appendixc.html>`__

`Bibliography <pt03.html#bibliography>`__

Bibliography
------------

Here are some other books you can read to help you understand the hacker
mindset.

[Hofstadter] *Gödel Escher Bach: An Eternal Golden Braid*. Douglas
Hofstadter. Copyright © 1979. Basic Books. ISBN 0-394-74502-7.

This book reads like an intellectual Grand Tour of hacker
preoccupations. Music, mathematical logic, programming, speculations on
the nature of intelligence, biology, and Zen are woven into a brilliant
tapestry themed on the concept of encoded self-reference. The perfect
left-brain companion to *Illuminatus*.

[Shea-ampersand-Wilson] *The Illuminatus! Trilogy*. Robert Shea and
Robert Anton Wilson. DTP. ISBN 0440539811.

(Originally in three volumes: *The Eye in the Pyramid*, *The Golden
Apple*, and *Leviathan*).

This work of alleged fiction is an incredible berserko-surrealist
rollercoaster of world-girdling conspiracies, intelligent dolphins, the
fall of Atlantis, who really killed JFK, sex, drugs, rock'n'roll, and
the Cosmic Giggle Factor. First published in three volumes, but there is
now a one-volume trade paperback, carried by most chain bookstores under
SF. The perfect right-brain companion to Hofstadter's *Göodel, Escher,
Bach*. See `*Eris* <E/Eris.html>`__,
`*Discordianism* <D/Discordianism.html>`__, `*random
numbers* <R/random-numbers.html>`__, `*Church of the
SubGenius* <C/Church-of-the-SubGenius.html>`__.

[Adams] *The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy*. Douglas Adams. Pocket
Books. Copyright © 1981. ISBN 0-671-46149-4.

This ‘Monty Python in Space’ spoof of SF genre traditions has been
popular among hackers ever since the original British radio show. Read
it if only to learn about Vogons (see `*bogon* <B/bogon.html>`__) and
the significance of the number 42 (see `*random
numbers* <R/random-numbers.html>`__) — and why the winningest chess
program of 1990 was called ‘Deep Thought’.

[Geoffrey] *The Tao of Programming*. James Geoffrey. Infobooks.
Copyright © 1987. ISBN 0-931137-07-1.

This gentle, funny spoof of the *Tao Te Ching* contains much that is
illuminating about the hacker way of thought. “When you have learned to
snatch the error code from the trap frame, it will be time for you to
leave.”

[Levy] *Hackers*. Steven Levy. Anchor/Doubleday. Copyright © 1984. ISBN
0-385-19195-2.

Levy's book is at its best in describing the early MIT hackers at the
Model Railroad Club and the early days of the microcomputer revolution.
He never understood Unix or the networksthough, and his enshrinement of
Richard Stallman as “the last true hacker” turns out (thankfully) to
have been quite misleading. Despite being a bit dated and containing
some minor errors (many fixed in the paperback edition), this remains a
useful and stimulating book that captures the feel of several important
hacker subcultures.

[Kelly-Bootle] *The Computer Contradictionary*. Stan Kelly-Bootle. MIT
Press. Copyright © 1995. ISBN 0-262-61112-0.

This pastiche of Ambrose Bierce's famous work is similar in format to
the Jargon File (and quotes several entries from TNHD-2) but somewhat
different in tone and intent. It is more satirical and less
anthropological, and is largely a product of the author's literate and
quirky imagination. For example, it defines computer science as “a study
akin to numerology and astrology, but lacking the precision of the
former and the success of the latter” and implementation as “The
fruitless struggle by the talented and underpaid to fulfill promises
made by the rich and ignorant”; flowchart becomes “to obfuscate a
problem with esoteric cartoons”. Revised and expanded from *The Devil's
DP Dictionary*, McGraw-Hill 1981, ISBN 0-07-034022-6; that work had some
stylistic influence on TNHD-1.

[Jennings] *The Devouring Fungus: Tales from the Computer Age*. Karla
Jennings. Norton. Copyright © 1990. ISBN 0-393-30732-8.

The author of this pioneering compendium knits together a great deal of
computer- and hacker-related folklore with good writing and a few
well-chosen cartoons. She has a keen eye for the human aspects of the
lore and is very good at illuminating the psychology and evolution of
hackerdom. Unfortunately, a number of small errors and awkwardnesses
suggest that she didn't have the final manuscript checked over by a
native speaker; the glossary in the back is particularly embarrassing,
and at least one classic tale (the Magic Switch story, retold here under
`A Story About Magic <magic-story.html>`__ in Appendix A) is given in
incomplete and badly mangled form. Nevertheless, this book is a win
overall and can be enjoyed by hacker and non-hacker alike.

[Kidder] *The Soul of a New Machine*. Tracy Kidder. Avon. Copyright ©
1982. ISBN 0-380-59931-7.

This book (a 1982 Pulitzer Prize winner) documents the adventure of the
design of a new Data General computer, the MV-8000 Eagle. It is an
amazingly well-done portrait of the hacker mindset — although largely
the hardware hacker — done by a complete outsider. It is a bit thin in
spots, but with enough technical information to be entertaining to the
serious hacker while providing non-technical people a view of what
day-to-day life can be like — the fun, the excitement, the disasters.
During one period, when the microcode and logic were glitching at the
nanosecond level, one of the overworked engineers departed the company,
leaving behind a note on his terminal as his letter of resignation: “I
am going to a commune in Vermont and will deal with no unit of time
shorter than a season.”

[Libes] *Life with UNIX: a Guide for Everyone*. Don Libes. Sandy
Ressler. Prentice-Hall. Copyright © 1989. ISBN 0-13-536657-7.

The authors of this book set out to tell you all the things about Unix
that tutorials and technical books won't. The result is gossipy, funny,
opinionated, downright weird in spots, and invaluable. Along the way
they expose you to enough of Unix's history, folklore and humor to
qualify as a first-class source for these things. Because so much of
today's hackerdom is involved with Unix, this in turn illuminates many
of its in-jokes and preoccupations.

[Vinge] *True Names ... and Other Dangers*. Vernor Vinge. Baen Books.
Copyright © 1987. ISBN 0-671-65363-6.

Hacker demigod Richard Stallman used to say that the title story of this
book “expresses the spirit of hacking best”. Until the subject of the
next entry came out, it was hard to even nominate another contender. The
other stories in this collection are also fine work by an author who has
since won multiple Hugos and is one of today's very best practitioners
of hard SF.

[Stephenson] *Snow Crash*. Neal Stephenson. Bantam. Copyright © 1992.
ISBN 0-553-56261-4.

Stephenson's epic, comic cyberpunk novel is deeply knowing about the
hacker psychology and its foibles in a way no other author of fiction
has ever even approached. His imagination, his grasp of the relevant
technical details, and his ability to communicate the excitement of
hacking and its results are astonishing, delightful, and (so far)
unsurpassed.

[Markoff-ampersand-Hafner] *Cyberpunk: Outlaws and Hackers on the
Computer Frontier*. Katie Hafner. John Markoff. Simon & Schuster.
Copyright © 1991. ISBN 0-671-68322-5.

This book gathers narratives about the careers of three notorious
crackers into a clear-eyed but sympathetic portrait of hackerdom's dark
side. The principals are Kevin Mitnick, “Pengo” and “Hagbard” of the
Chaos Computer Club, and Robert T. Morris (see `*RTM* <R/RTM.html>`__,
sense 2). Markoff and Hafner focus as much on their psychologies and
motivations as on the details of their exploits, but don't slight the
latter. The result is a balanced and fascinating account, particularly
useful when read immediately before or after Cliff Stoll's `The Cuckoo's
Egg <pt03.html#Stoll>`__. It is especially instructive to compare RTM, a
true hacker who blundered, with the sociopathic phone-freak Mitnick and
the alienated, drug-addled crackers who made the Chaos Club notorious.
The gulf between `*wizard* <W/wizard.html>`__ and
`*wannabee* <W/wannabee.html>`__ has seldom been made more obvious.

[Stoll] *The Cuckoo's Egg*. Clifford Stoll. Doubleday. Copyright © 1989.
ISBN 0-385-24946-2.

Clifford Stoll's absorbing tale of how he tracked Markus Hess and the
Chaos Club cracking ring nicely illustrates the difference between
‘hacker' and ‘cracker'. Stoll's portrait of himself, his lady Martha,
and his friends at Berkeley and on the Internet paints a marvelously
vivid picture of how hackers and the people around them like to live and
how they think.

--------------

+------------------------------+-------------------------+--------------------------------+
| `Prev <Z/zorkmid.html>`__    | `Up <index.html>`__     |  `Next <appendixa.html>`__     |
+------------------------------+-------------------------+--------------------------------+
| zorkmid                      | `Home <index.html>`__   |  Appendix A. Hacker Folklore   |
+------------------------------+-------------------------+--------------------------------+

